readme.md, before:

# SUBLEQ

* Author: Richard James Howe
* Email: <mailto:howe.r.j.89@gmail.com>
* Repo: <https://github.com/howerj/subleq>
* License: The Unlicense

A 16-bit SUBLEQ computer, with a few special cases to halt the machine and
for Input/Output purposes. The goal of this project is to get a eForth
interpreter up an running in a virtual machine, perhaps get it running
on an FPGA, and compare it to the [bit-serial](https://github.com/howerj/bit-serial)
CPU and project to see if this esoteric system is faster or produces a
smaller system on an FPGA.

## To Do

* [x] Implement virtual machine and skeleton of project
  * [ ] Optional: Add proper terminal handling for Unix and Windows
  * [ ] Optional: Add debugging functionality
* [ ] Implement SUBLEQ routines
* [ ] Implement eForth
  - [ ] Implement Virtual Machine capable of executing Forth
  - [ ] Implement Forth on the virtual machine
* [ ] Documentation
* [ ] Optional: Port to FPGA
* [ ] Optional: Port and improve self-interpreter with I/O
  - See <http://www.mazonka.com/subleq/index.html>
  - See <https://eigenratios.blogspot.com/2006/09/mark-ii-oisc-self-interpreter.html>

## References

* <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forth_(programming_language)>
* <https://github.com/howerj/bit-serial>
* <http://gerigeri.uw.hu/DawnOS/index.html>
* <https://hackaday.io/project/158329-dawn-the-subleq-operating-system-by-geri>
* <https://rosettacode.org/wiki/Subleq>
* <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One-instruction_set_computer#Subtract_and_branch_if_less_than_or_equal_to_zero>
* <https://github.com/8l/hsq>
* <http://mazonka.com/subleq/>

Commit message:

Added 'until' in assembler, clean up, and more
"until" has been added to the assembler, the entry point is now
set later on in the program, some more TODO comments have been
added, and the need for "-if ... then" to guard against the data
section.

readme.md, after:

# SUBLEQ

* Author: Richard James Howe
* Email: <mailto:howe.r.j.89@gmail.com>
* Repo: <https://github.com/howerj/subleq>
* License: The Unlicense

A 16-bit SUBLEQ computer, with a few special cases to halt the machine and
for Input/Output purposes. The goal of this project is to get a eForth
interpreter up an running in a virtual machine, perhaps get it running
on an FPGA, and compare it to the [bit-serial](https://github.com/howerj/bit-serial)
CPU and project to see if this esoteric system is faster or produces a
smaller system on an FPGA.

An 8-bit SUBLEQ machine might be nice to target also, however that would
be a little more difficult, but still doable. A 16-bit virtual machine 
would have to be emulated anyway.

## To Do

* [x] Implement virtual machine and skeleton of project
  * [ ] Optional: Add proper terminal handling for Unix and Windows
  * [ ] Optional: Add debugging functionality
* [ ] Implement SUBLEQ routines
* [ ] Implement eForth
  - [ ] Implement Virtual Machine capable of executing Forth
  - [ ] Implement Forth on the virtual machine
* [ ] Documentation
* [ ] Optional: Port to FPGA
* [ ] Optional: Port and improve self-interpreter with I/O
  - See <http://www.mazonka.com/subleq/index.html>
  - See <https://eigenratios.blogspot.com/2006/09/mark-ii-oisc-self-interpreter.html>

## References

* <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forth_(programming_language)>
* <https://github.com/howerj/bit-serial>
* <http://gerigeri.uw.hu/DawnOS/index.html>
* <https://hackaday.io/project/158329-dawn-the-subleq-operating-system-by-geri>
* <https://rosettacode.org/wiki/Subleq>
* <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One-instruction_set_computer#Subtract_and_branch_if_less_than_or_equal_to_zero>
* <https://github.com/8l/hsq>
* <http://mazonka.com/subleq/>
